Data warehousing==>Data warehouses are purpose-built to aggregate and process large amounts of structured data quickly . To protect this data, they typically use relational databases to provide ACID transactions, a step that is crucial for ensuring data integrity for business applications.

LIMITATIONS=>

robust, data
warehouses are often hard to scale to handle the large volumes, variety of analytics
(including event processing and data sciences), and data velocity typical in big data
scenarios. This limitation is a critical factor that often necessitates using more scalable
solutions such as data lakes or distributed processing frameworks like Apache Spark.

Data lakes==>Data lakes are scalable storage repositories (HDFS, cloud object stores such as Ama‐
zon S3, ADLS Gen2, and GCS, and so on) that hold vast amounts of raw data
in their native format until needed

data lakes are designed to handle an internet-scale volume, velocity, and variety of
data (e.g., structured, semistructured, and unstructured data).

LIMITATIONS=>
The lack of ACID guarantees means the storage system

processing failures leave your storage in an inconsistent state with orphaned files.Subsequent queries to the storage system include files that should not result in
duplicate counts


LAKEHOUSES==>
The lakehouse combines the best elements of data lakes and data warehouses for
OLAP workloads. It merges the scalability and flexibility of data lakes with the man‐
agement features and performance optimization of data warehouses 

Delta Lake, Apache Iceberg, and Apache Hudi are the most popular open source
lakehouse formats. As you can guess, this book will focus on Delta Lake.

Delta Lake

Delta Lake is an open source storage layer that supports ACID transactions, scalable
metadata handling, and unification of streaming and batch data processing. It was
initially designed to work with Apache Spark and large-scale data lake workloads.

KeyFeatures==>


ACID transactions

Scalable metadata
Time travel
Unified batch/streaming
Schema evolution/enforcement
Audit history
DML operations
